README.md, before:

# Restaurant Example

To start this app, perform the following step in order

1. Clone this repo to your machine
1. Confirm postgres is running
1. Create a postgres database called "restaurant"
1. Update the .env file in the root of the project with the proper passwords
1. cd into the project folder
1. Enter `go run main.go` to start server

I've created 1 user called bob with a password of bobsecret.

If you log in with those credentials, you will get a token which you will need to put into the header of your http calls as a bearer token

For instance login may return this:

```
{"message":"logged in","status":false,"token":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJVc2VySUQiOiJidmFyamRjbzBtNTdxY2JkNzZwMCIsIlVzZXJuYW1lIjoiYm9iIiwiZXhwIjoxNjEzODk4MDg2fQ.X7ukZNIO8sdVXrMFEg4s_UgZwf1JBElO_6lcfCPbSD4","user":{"ID":"bvarjdco0m57qcbd76p0","Username":"bob","Password":"bobsecret","Address":"4 Memory Lane","Distance":1.2,"CreatedAt":"2020-12-12T22:50:29.608262-08:00","UpdatedAt":"2020-12-12T22:50:29.608262-08:00"}}
```

In that case you must set

```
Bearer: "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJVc2VySUQiOiJidmFyamRjbzBtNTdxY2JkNzZwMCIsIlVzZXJuYW1lIjoiYm9iIiwiZXhwIjoxNjEzODk4MDg2fQ.X7ukZNIO8sdVXrMFEg4s_UgZwf1JBElO_6lcfCPbSD4"
```

in the http request header

## REQUIREMENTS

Restaurant role with features:

- Sign in/out as a restaurant.
- Get a list of available orders.
- Print invoice as a pdf file.

Customer role with feature:

- Sign in/out as a customer
- Order a food item from list of available items (populate some dummy items in the db)
- Get total fare of the food ordered which can be calculated as per following rule-
  - Base (Item) cost = Rate \* Quantity
  - Taxes - 5 % on base cost
  - Delivery charge - Rs 1 \* distance b/w customer and restaurant.
- Get estimated time which can be calculated as per following rule-
  - Food prep time = Unit prep time \* quantity
  - Delivery time - Assume driver to drive at rate of 40 kmph.
- Cancel an order.

Driver role with features -

- Sign in/out as driver
- Get an order information with the restaurant and delivery address.
- Update an order as picked up.
- Update an order as delivered.

## ASSUMPTIONS

I have made the following assumptions and simplifications:

1.  Everyone is a user. Currently I don't distinguish between customer, driver, and restaurant staff
1.  A customer can only order one item. Otherwise, I would have to manage complex order lists.
1.  I've harcoded the secret for the JWT bearer token. This should come from the environment or a database.
1.  I've populated the database with 1 user, bob, with a password of bobsecret
1.  Prices are in dollars. Travel cost is $.10/mile
1.  I was having trouble parsing the post data from Postman, so I'm just reading the parameters from the query string.  E.g., /login?username=bob&password=bobsecret
1.  You can get the commit history from Github
1.  When you print the pdf it writes a file called "report.pdf" in the executable directory.

## API

- POST login - returns a bearer token
- GET menu - list menu items

- POST customers/{userid}/orders/{itemid} - place an order
- GET customers/{userid}/orders - list existing orders

- GET orders/{orderid}/price - get total price for an order
- GET orders/{orderid}/time - get time of delivery for an order

- GET orders - list all orders
- PUT orders/{orderid}/pickedup - mark an order as picked up
- PUT orders/{orderid}/delivered - mark an order as delivered
- PUT orders/{orderid}/delete
- GET orders/{orderid}/print - print order to pdf

- GET users - list all users

## DATABASE

#### Customers

CustomerID, user name, password, address, distance

#### MenuItems

ItemID, Description, Price, prep time

#### Orders

OrderID, UserID, ItemID, PickedUp, Delivered

## ARCHITECTURE

API <=> Routers <=> Authentication <=> Controllers <=> Database

Commit message:

updated parsing of post data for /login

README.md, after:

# Restaurant Example

To start this app, perform the following step in order

1. Clone this repo to your machine
1. Confirm postgres is running
1. Create a postgres database called "restaurant"
1. Update the .env file in the root of the project with the proper passwords
1. cd into the project folder
1. Enter `go run main.go` to start server

I've created 1 user called bob with a password of bobsecret.

If you log in with those credentials, you will get a token which you will need to put into the header of your http calls as a bearer token

For instance login may return this:

```
{"message":"logged in","status":false,"token":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJVc2VySUQiOiJidmFyamRjbzBtNTdxY2JkNzZwMCIsIlVzZXJuYW1lIjoiYm9iIiwiZXhwIjoxNjEzODk4MDg2fQ.X7ukZNIO8sdVXrMFEg4s_UgZwf1JBElO_6lcfCPbSD4","user":{"ID":"bvarjdco0m57qcbd76p0","Username":"bob","Password":"bobsecret","Address":"4 Memory Lane","Distance":1.2,"CreatedAt":"2020-12-12T22:50:29.608262-08:00","UpdatedAt":"2020-12-12T22:50:29.608262-08:00"}}
```

In that case you must set

```
Bearer: "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJVc2VySUQiOiJidmFyamRjbzBtNTdxY2JkNzZwMCIsIlVzZXJuYW1lIjoiYm9iIiwiZXhwIjoxNjEzODk4MDg2fQ.X7ukZNIO8sdVXrMFEg4s_UgZwf1JBElO_6lcfCPbSD4"
```

in the http request header

## REQUIREMENTS

Restaurant role with features:

- Sign in/out as a restaurant.
- Get a list of available orders.
- Print invoice as a pdf file.

Customer role with feature:

- Sign in/out as a customer
- Order a food item from list of available items (populate some dummy items in the db)
- Get total fare of the food ordered which can be calculated as per following rule-
  - Base (Item) cost = Rate \* Quantity
  - Taxes - 5 % on base cost
  - Delivery charge - Rs 1 \* distance b/w customer and restaurant.
- Get estimated time which can be calculated as per following rule-
  - Food prep time = Unit prep time \* quantity
  - Delivery time - Assume driver to drive at rate of 40 kmph.
- Cancel an order.

Driver role with features -

- Sign in/out as driver
- Get an order information with the restaurant and delivery address.
- Update an order as picked up.
- Update an order as delivered.

## ASSUMPTIONS

I have made the following assumptions and simplifications:

1.  Everyone is a user. Currently I don't distinguish between customer, driver, and restaurant staff
1.  A customer can only order one item. Otherwise, I would have to manage complex order lists.
1.  I've harcoded the secret for the JWT bearer token. This should come from the environment or a database.
1.  I've populated the database with 1 user, bob, with a password of bobsecret
1.  Prices are in dollars. Travel cost is $.10/mile
1.  For /login you can use parameters from the query string. E.g., /login?username=bob&password=bobsecret
1.  For login, you can also do a post with the postdata in the form of {"username":"bob","password":"bobsecret"}
1.  You can get the commit history from Github
1.  When you print the pdf it writes a file called "report.pdf" in the executable directory.

## API

- POST login - returns a bearer token
- GET menu - list menu items

- POST customers/{userid}/orders/{itemid} - place an order
- GET customers/{userid}/orders - list existing orders

- GET orders/{orderid}/price - get total price for an order
- GET orders/{orderid}/time - get time of delivery for an order

- GET orders - list all orders
- PUT orders/{orderid}/pickedup - mark an order as picked up
- PUT orders/{orderid}/delivered - mark an order as delivered
- PUT orders/{orderid}/delete
- GET orders/{orderid}/print - print order to pdf

- GET users - list all users

## DATABASE

#### Customers

CustomerID, user name, password, address, distance

#### MenuItems

ItemID, Description, Price, prep time

#### Orders

OrderID, UserID, ItemID, PickedUp, Delivered

## ARCHITECTURE

API <=> Routers <=> Authentication <=> Controllers <=> Database
